# Projects

# Demand for Variety: Bayesian Hierarchical model with Multiple Discrete Continuous Extreme Value model

Consumers commonly choose more than one variety of a product within the category for a shopping trip. To explain simultaneous demand for multiple alternatives that are imperfect substitutes for one another, the multiple discrete-continuous extreme value (MDCEV) model introduced parsimonious approach to handle multi-unit choices. The underlying assumption of demand is based on the transformed and generalized variant of the translated CES utility function.The baseline preferences of different choices and satiation parameters are captured by applying adaptive Markov Chain Monte Carlo directly into likelihood function of a Multiple Discrete Continuous Extreme Value model.

Within the context of dealing with multiple discrete-continuous choices, the purpose of this paper is to combine MDCEV model with adaptive Metropolis Hasting algorithm based on translated CES utility function. Bayesian hierarchical model allows us to make each individuals has parameters for baseline preference(ψk) as well as diminishing marginal utility(αk). This work is applied into data on purchases of varieties of yogurt. The result of estimates implies difference between varieties in not only base preference but also different rates of diminishing marginal utility, just as Kim et al(2002)’s paper. The improved efficiency is demonstrated by simple and parsimonious structure of model with direct simulation method. Moreover, the MDCEV model is applicable with the presence of large number of discrete consumption alternatives, and analytically tractable since this model collapses exactly to Multinomial Logit model when consumers choose only one alternative. Yogurt data is described by 382 customers, 2380 observations, and different number of shopping trips for each customers. Heterogeneity is captured in the multivariate normal distribution, and Dirichlet Process is expected to be applied.

